# What needs to be done to prepare json model from TileSet in Tiled.

####

  1. Create new tilemap from png with tiles and save it as json.

  2. Add custom properties 'action' and 'direction' to static or animated tiles

    - only tiles with property 'action' will be processed by the game. Other tiles are ignored.

    - 'direction' attribute on tile is optional. If tile with particular 'action' does not have any direction specified, game will automatically use the frames for all directions.

    - if only some 'direction' is filled and some are not defined for given 'action', game will not load such tileset. Either all directions or no directions must be present for any particular 'action'

  3. Add optional custom properties 'repeat' and 'action_frame'

    - property 'repeat' determines if the animation should repeat after the last frame is displayed. Normally, all animations have 'repeat' set to True automatically by the game. If 'repeat' is not specified as property on the tile it is automatically set to True in case that animation has more than 1 frame. If animation has only 1 frame, repeat is set to False automatically by the game. Typical animation with multiple frames that have 'repeat' set to False is 'expire' action (once expire animation is finished, it is not repeating again).

    - property 'action_frame' indicates on which frame from the animation the game can generate some action (for example generation of the arrow on 'shoot' action). It is optional parameter. If not present, game will consider the last frame of animation as the action frame.

# Example of (part of ) json file generated by Tiled SW

        -> darkmale.png
        -> darkmale.json (fully generated by Tiled) - fully defines the model

    { "columns":13,
    "image":"darkmale.png",
    "imageheight":1344,
    "imagewidth":832,
    "margin":0,
    "name":"darkmale",
    "spacing":0,
    "tilecount":273,
    "tiledversion":"1.3.1",
    "tileheight":64,
    "tilewidth":64,
    "transparentcolor":"#000000",
    "type":"tileset",
    "version":1.2
    "tiles":[ 
        {
            "animation":[
                    {
                    "duration":101,
                    "tileid":117
                    }, 
                    ...],
            "id":117,
            "properties":[
                    {
                    "name":"action",
                    "type":"string",
                    "value":"walk"
                    },
                    {
                    "name":"direction",
                    "type":"string",
                    "value":"left"
                    }]
            },